[ Music ]
>> We're fortunate to
have Dr. Joe Dispenza back
with us once again and
today we'll be speaking
about the mystery of the
placebo effect and much more.
The new thinking on the placebo
effect is not to dismiss it
as a random event rather to
look into the depths of what's
at work when the mind is engaged
to believe in a healthy outcome.
Dr. Joe will explain the
latest science on the phenomena
and deeper questions surrounding
it such as why do we need
to take the medicine when the
mind can create the healing
effect and I think a lot of
people are interested in this.
Thank you for joining us again.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza: Happy
to be with you again.
>> You're a little
ray of sunshine
when you enter the building.
[laughter] Everybody's chirping.
So let's talk about something
that is probably
doging most people.
I'm always I think kind of
amazed out and about in speaking
with friends how much
genuine suffering there is
in the world among people who
would seemingly have no reason
to perceive their
life as suffering.
And when you look at it from
a mind/brain perspective,
what would you say is
the greatest impetus
for all the suffering that's
happening among otherwise
seemingly healthy and
prosperous people and not?
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza: I think
it's a great conversation
to have.
I think a lot of people
confuse pleasure with joy.
And so we have you know
stressors in our life
and we experience frustration
and impatience and we suffer
from conditions in our world.
There's nothing wrong with that.
I think it's healthy
that we can pay attention
to how we're feeling.
The problem I think is that
when we react to something
and we keep those chemicals
going for an extended period
of time then we start to
memorize those emotional states
and so when we get to that
point we start viewing our life
through the lens of that emotion
and for the most part an
emotion is a record of the past
so really a viewing our life
through the lens of the past.
Now here's where it gets tricky
because the moment we're
viewing our life in the lens
of the past we're
always going to try
to anticipate a future worst
case scenario based on the past.
>> Worst case scenario.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza: Of course.
You got to be prepared --
>> Yeah.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza: --
and protect yourself for
what's going to go wrong
and when we do that, we
basically pick a potential
in the quantum field
that's a known.
We focus on that experience
to the exclusion
of everything else.
The thought in our mind
literally becomes the experience
and then we emotionally begin
to embrace the event
before it takes place
and our body physiologically
begins to respond
as if it's in that future event.
To the body, it's
experiencing the event.
And the body as the
unconscious mind, gets the rush
of those chemicals and so in
time, we condition the body
to live in that state of
suffering or that state
of anticipation or dread
and the long term effects
of that then is predicting
the future based
on the past except we're
never in the present moment
and that kind of torment
to the body is difficult.
So then when that occurs
then and if we get it right,
you know, we pat ourselves
on the shoulder and we say,
"God look at me, how smart I am.
You need to hang out with me."
But when we don't get it
right we wind up in trouble.
>> Um-hmm.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza: And we
start experiencing the vigilance
and the discomfort and the
pain that goes along with it
and then we look outside of
ourselves to find the way
to change that feeling
inside of us.
So you know, we'll use alcohol
or drugs or whatever to try
to sedate or try to medicate
to reduce that feeling
or by the same means if
we're thinking continuously
about our past, in time we
begin to teach the body --
>> Um-hmm.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza: --
emotionally to live in the past
and the body is the unconscious
mind emotionally is living
in the past so then the
same exact phenomena happens
because when we think
about our problems,
we're producing the same
chemistry in the brain and body
as the event is takes place.
So if you look at a
functional brain scan of anxiety
and depression they
look exactly the same.
Anxiety is looking to the
future and depression is looking
to the past and most people who
have anxiety do have depression.
So then now when we get
to that state we tend
to complain about our problems.
We tend to get frustrated and
talk about them and when we do
that then, we're
conditioning the body,
we're enslaving the body into
those chemicals of suffering,
those chemicals of
complaining, of blaming,
of making excuses feeling
sorry for ourselves
and that unconscious process
then is literally an addiction
to the body.
So then we were talking about
this when we were having a cup
of coffee and that
addiction then is something
that you cannot stop so the
body then gets tormented
into these chemicals
of victimization
and it becomes the
person's state of being.
So then when it comes time
to change and you have
to no longer think that way,
no longer behave that way,
no longer feel that way,
you're stepping into that river
of change and the hardest part
about that is not
making the same choice.
>> Exactly.
You know when you're talking
about that, I'm thinking
of Don Miguel Ruiz and his
book, I think it was "The Voice
of Knowledge" but he was talking
about how your life
is your canvas,
you can paint it
however you wish.
Well once you start getting the
subconscious programming going,
you know, the computer program,
the software that's been
programmed for this same pattern
of thought over and over,
really what are you doing
except adding more paint
on the same weary old image.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza: Yeah.
It's an unconscious process.
>> It's an unconscious process.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza: People
say to me well I'm fasting
from you know sugar or
I'm not eating chocolate
or I'm not eating
any white foods.
You know what I tell them,
I said you really want to go
on a fast, fast from
complaining.
[laughter] Fast from
guilt, fast from suffering.
Try that and give
you body a break --
>> Yeah.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza: --
from those chemicals and when
your body is no longer getting
that emotional rush, the
body is going to be just
like an addict breaking
the addiction.
It's going to want you
to complain and blame --
>> Yes.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza: It's
going to bring up scenes
from your past just so the
body as the mind can reaffirm
that identity and stepping into
that river of change, you know,
and no longer, you
know, becoming conscious
of your unconscious thoughts,
you know, becoming aware
of your habits and behaviors.
Paying attention and
reserving your feelings.
When you do that and you step
into that river of change,
there's -- you got to go from
the old self to the new self
and crossing that river is the
biological, the neurological,
the genetic, the chemical
death of the old self.
And most people don't
want to cross that river
because the moment they
feel uncomfortable they're
feeling unfamiliar.
>> Well isn't it a matter
of discipline as well?
I mean, don't you have
to create interrupters
in the thought pattern
and when you notice
if you're mindful enough to
see, there I'm doing it again --
I mean isn't it beneficial
to interrupt that
and not let that keep playing?
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza: Yeah.
That's one way.
I mean by you interrupting
the process,
nerve cells that no longer
fire together are no longer
wired together.
>> Right.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza: Your
conscious volition means
when you're observing the
thought or paying attention
to the thought it means
you're no longer the program.
>> Right.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza: You're now
the consciousness observing the
program and you begin to
objectify your subjective self.
That process of self-observation
allows us
to modify our behaviors
to do a better job in life
and that's neuroplasticity.
And because of the size of the
frontal lobe, that forebrain,
that mechanism of
metacognition allows us to think
about how we're thinking.
That's so we can really
modify who we are.
>> So does a person not have
the choice even though we're
in these unconscious
programs to say okay,
from this point forward
I am going
to create a change
in that program.
I don't wish to live
like that any longer.
By simple will and
discipline, can you choose
to become the observer?
Or is this something that has to
happen on another level first?
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza:
Well you think
about breaking an addiction to
say something like chocolate.
Okay? We'll just use
this as an example.
If you're addicted to chocolate
and I slid a chocolate cake
in front of you,
the moment you saw
that chocolate cake your brain
would start saying oh my God,
you know, I want a
piece of chocolate,
everybody else is
eating chocolate.
It's not that bad for you.
I can start tomorrow.
And your body would
autonomically, automatically,
physiologically respond in the
presence of that chocolate cake
without your conscious mind.
In other words --
>> Right.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza: -- if
you're addicted it's going
to happen automatically.
So then if you broke the
addiction to the chocolate cake,
literally did not have
any addiction any longer.
If I slid that chocolate cake in
front of you, you could eat it
or not eat it and you would
have no response, okay?
In other words you'd --
>> Sure.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza: --
have no physiological --
your conscious mind and your
subconscious mind would really
be working together, but when
you're addicted your body has
become the mind and your body's
overriding the conscious brain.
Right?
>> So you're saying you can't
zing in an observer type
of consciousness or you can?
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza: Oh you can.
Will is one of the mechanisms --
>> Yes.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza: --
that allows us to do that.
But if you're addicted to
certain emotions in your life --
>> Um-hmm.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza: -- I
don't know, guilt or shame
or unworthiness or insecurity
or rage or frustration,
then by definition of a
quantum model, we use the people
and conditions in our life
to reaffirm our emotional
addictions
so that we can remember who
we are as a somebody so then
when people go with
their conscious will,
like they make a declaration,
I'm going to be no longer a
victim today, I'm going to live
in the state of Grace,
they start out with really
good intentions but you know,
remember if the body's become
the mind then it's not getting
its emotional addiction.
>> Um-hmm.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza: The
body's going to send signals
to the brain and then you
walk back into your life
and you see the person that
you use to reaffirm your guilt
or your frustration just
like being in the presence
of the chocolate cake, the
moment you see that person
if you're addicted to that
emotion and you're using them
to reaffirm it, just
like in the presence
of the chocolate
cake your body's
going to physiologically,
autonomically, automatically,
subconsciously return back
to the old chemical self.
In other words you're
going to go unconscious.
So it takes an act
of willfulness --
>> Yes.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza: -- to
make the choice and as we talk
in a little bit, when we
make a choice to change,
we have to make a choice
that has such an amplitude
or intensity of energy
that the amplitude
of choice becomes the
experience that literally begins
to be greater than the
hard wired programs --
>> Um-hmm.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza: --
in the brain than the
emotional addictions in the body
and the body has to
respond to a new mind.
>> Yes.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza: In other
words, the hair on the back
of your neck has to stand up
and the body as the animal has
to say, oh oh, she's
serious this time.
It's not you sitting on the
couch with your smart phone here
and your computer here and
remote control in your --
going to change tomorrow.
>> Yeah.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza:
Your body is like relax,
she's lying to herself again.
>> Yep.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza:
Nothing's going to change.
So the act of willfulness
is one component
but what our research shows is
that where the programs exist
they exist in the subconscious.
>> Yes.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza: Right?
And it's in the body mind.
So then the purpose of
meditation as we talked
about last time is to get
beyond the conscious mind,
past the analytical mind,
into the subconscious mind
where those programs exist
and that's the purpose
of meditation, to get
beyond the analytical mind.
Now you're in the
operating system.
>> Um-hmm.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza: And
so as you become conscious
of your unconscious thoughts
as you begin to pay attention
to your behaviors and notice
your emotions you're actually
going into the operating
system and bringing
to your conscious awareness.
Why? Because you don't
want those to slip
by your awareness ever again.
>> Um-hmm.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza:
So then when you begin
to decide then how you do
want to program and you begin
to teach your body emotionally
what wealth feels like,
what freedom feels like,
what nobility is like.
When you begin to plan
your behaviors in your day,
the act of rehearsing
who you're going
to be installs the neurological
circuits in your brain.
You're priming your brain
so you have something to use
when you open your eyes.
When you begin to think about
what thoughts you do want
to think about and fire
and wire in your brain,
how you think how you act and
how you feel is your personality
and your personality creates
your personal reality.
Now your job is to get up from
your meditation differently
than when you sat down.
>> Um-hmm.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza: And you
have to be in a new state
of being so that when you
walk back into your life
and you've overcome your guilt
or you've overcome
your frustration
and the body's no longer
living in the past,
it's now living in the future --
>> Um-hmm.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza: --
the moment that happens,
you can walk in the presence
of your greatest adversary,
your greatest enemy,
the person you used
to reaffirm your addiction
and you have no physiological
response anymore
because you did the work
to overcome yourself.
>> Yes.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza: So
I think it takes both.
I think it takes --
>> Yes.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza: -- the
act of volition, the will --
>> The choice --
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza: The choice.
>> -- the will and
the meditation.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza: And then
it takes going inward then
and making that process
of retiring the old self
and beginning to
reinvent a new self
and that's what our
research shows.
>> Absolutely.
And you -- we're going to
get to some of that research
in a little bit, but you
mentioned a little bit ago we go
unconscious again and this is
a process we constantly do.
We can do all of the things you
just mentioned, for example,
but it seems that the
default program is to go back
into this unconscious state --
and we just barely touched on it
in our last interview,
why is that?
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza:
Well 95% of who we are
by the time we're 35
years old is this set
of memorized behaviors and
emotional reactions, beliefs,
perceptions, attitudes that
function subconsciously
like an automatic program.
I mean literally, the body has
been conditioned to be the mind.
So if 95% of who you are
by the time you're 35 years
old is a redundant auto pilot
behaviors -- that's
what a habit is --
and you walk in to your life and
you're going to try to change
and use the 5% of
your conscious mind
and there's no emotional
quotient
to really teach the body,
then the moment you have a stray
thought or the moment you react
to something in your
life, you just press play.
>> Um-hmm.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza: You
just pressed the program
and it's going to
run and you're --
>> Just like a computer program.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza: -- just
like a computer program.
So you may, you know,
have two glasses of wine
and will be walking home and
you need money and you go
to your ATM machine
and you can't --
you look at the ATM
numbers and you're like,
I can't remember my numbers,
but you walk over and you look
at the key pad and all
of a sudden your
fingers dial the number.
Well how did you do that?
You couldn't consciously
remember, but you practiced it
so many times that your body
new better than your brain.
That's who we are.
>> Yes.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza: So there's
a program to brush your teeth.
There's a program
to comb your hair.
to drive a car.
There's a program
to speak a language.
There's a program to complain.
There's a program
to judge others.
There's a program to push
to the front of the line.
There's a program to compete.
That's the culture.
So then you put yourself
in the culture where all
of that's normal and acceptable
and everybody else is doing it
and the current's going
this way and your trying
to swim upstream them,
it takes a certain amount
of awareness then to
go against what --
>> Well to delete that file.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza: --
and to go against
what feels so natural.
>> Yeah.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza: Like
this is so unnatural.
Well that's my definition of
genius being uncomfortable
and being okay with it.
>> Yes.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza: When
I'm uncomfortable and okay
with it I know I'm
crossing the river of change
and when you're crossing
that river most people say
I can't predict my future
because they can't predict
their guilt or their frustration
but the best way to predict
your future when you're
in that unknown is to create it.
Now's the time.
You're in fertile ground.
You're in the uncertainty
principle.
You're in the unknown, that's
where all possibility exists.
So right outside
of a comfort zone.
Right outside of that
known, right outside
of that comfort zone is
where the magic happens.
>> Um-hmm.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza: So
we have to teach people
to become comfortable
in that void.
>> Absolutely.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza: And
when they're comfortable
in that void then they're
in the place where oh gosh,
now I'm in the unknown, so
you and I have been hypnotized
and conditioned to believing
that the unknown is bad
and if you're living by
the hormones of stress,
if you're living by
aggression and anger and war
and frustration and
hatred and all of those --
fear and anxiety and
sadness and guilt and shame,
the unknown is a scary place
and there's better chances
in survival in antiquity from
running from the unknown.
So if you're living
by a lower denominator
of those survival emotions then
everybody will always cling
to the known.
So then tell me how does
the new experience happen?
So then when we break the
addictions to those emotions
and when you truly free yourself
from the chains of the past
and the body liberates energy
and you feel lifted and joyful
and inspired and you're
seeing a whole new landscape,
a whole new horizon,
that creative state then,
now you're going to select an
unknown and the unknown is going
to become an adventure,
now that concept stepping
out into the unknown
and trusting yourself,
trusting in possibility,
trusting in the unknown,
that's the natural
state of being
but if you watch enough
news and you're conditioned
that you need a certain
hair style or a certain look
and to look you know anemic
and underweight and emaciated
and that's beauty and everybody
else is trying to do the same --
you know chasing false
ideals or much --
or whatever people how we're
being conditioned to go
against that really then means
that you have to learn a bit
of knowledge about yourself and
the true nature of who we are.
That we are greater -- other
than our body we're greater
than our environment and we live
beyond time and when you get
to that point or understand
that you're a consciousness
now using the brain and body
to create different levels of
mind to experience the canvas
of life then you start
to ask yourself then,
there's got to be more.
Who am I? Why am I doing this?
Why -- what is this -- what
is our meaning in life?
Those fundamental questions are
when the soul begins to wake up.
>> And all of this extends
into the physical also
when you're talking about these
wired programs we've created
with as you say anxiety
or hatred,
self-loathing and so forth.
This all has a direct impact
on the physiology
of the body as well.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza:
Absolutely and look, it is no --
there's no scientist
that would disagree
that the long term effects of
these chemicals dysregulate
and down regulate genes
and create disease.
It's a scientific
fact that the hormones
of stress push the genetic
buttons that create disease
because no organism
in nature can live
in emergency mode all the time.
So if you're anticipating
some worst case scenario
or remembering some
event from your past.
>> Worry.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza: Worry
or suffering or whatever,
then you're turning on
the stress response just
by thought alone and
if those chemicals
of stress are highly
addictive you become addictive
to your thoughts.
So then if you're
addicted to your thoughts
and those thoughts
can make you sick,
the question is can you
thoughts make you well?
So then what is the physiology
and the mechanism
of how that happens?
>> So let's go in to
beliefs, perceptions,
and morphogenetic fields and
Rupert Sheldrake's words.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza:
Well, let's talk about it
because where do our thoughts
and feelings come from?
Our thoughts and feelings
come from our memories.
Our thoughts and feelings come
from the things we're exposed
to in terms of knowledge.
>> Um-hmm.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza:
And the experiences
that we have in our life.
So when you have an experience
or you learn something
new your brain begins
to physically change and
you wire that in your brain.
You have new circuits
to reflect that event.
So there's a fingerprint
or footprint in your brain.
When you have an experience
and the experience produces
an emotional quotient --
that's what experiences do
they have a residue of emotion.
Emotions are the end
product of experience --
then how you think
and how you feel
for the most part is
a record of your past
and your brain is an
artifact of the past.
It is a reflection of
everything you've been exposed
to in your environment.
And your body if you're
living by the same emotion
and those thoughts are
driving the emotions
and the emotions are
driving the thoughts
and the thoughts are driving
the emotions then your body
as the unconscious
mind is believing it's
in the past experience 24
hours a day, 7 days a week,
365 days a year.
To the body, it's
literally living in the past.
>> Um-hmm.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza:
So now if our thoughts
and feelings then are
a record of the past
and you take a series
of thoughts
and you connect a thought to a
feeling, a thought to a feeling,
a thought to a feeling,
that's called an attitude.
So you have a series of good
thoughts that are connected
to a series of good feelings,
you say I have a pretty
good attitude, you know?
And if you have a series
of negative thoughts
that are connected to
some negative feelings,
you would say I have
a pretty bad attitude.
Now how you think and how you
feel creates a state of being.
Thoughts are the
language of the brain
and feelings are the language
of the body and how you think
and how you feel
creates a state of being.
You got it?
So now, if you take an attitude,
an attitude, an attitude,
and you string a series
of attitudes together
that's called a belief
and a belief is just an
extended state of being.
So if an attitude is a
shortened state of being
and a belief is elongated state
of being we could say then
that a belief is a
thought you keep thinking
over and over again --
>> Um-hmm.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza: --
until you fire and
wire it in your brain
and it has a component of
emotion that then begins
to condition the body
into believing it's true.
So then if you keep thinking and
feeling and feeling and thinking
in the same way and
you condition your body
to be the mind of that state of
being an unconscious process,
then a belief is an
unconscious state of being.
So we have beliefs about
money, we have beliefs
about spirituality, we have
beliefs about relationships,
we have beliefs about drugs
and pills and medicine.
We have beliefs about
governments.
everything, weight,
diet, it's all beliefs.
So then a belief is an
extended state of being
that becomes an unconscious
process
because the body has been
hard wired neurologically
and emotionally conditioned.
So the boundaries of our beliefs
then become the way we feel
about things so when
you're exposed
to a new belief [laughter]
and it's outside
of your emotional acceptance,
that's the moment people
say I don't believe it,
it doesn't feel right.
>> Um-hmm.
It meets resistance.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza: Right.
So then if you take a belief
and you string beliefs, beliefs,
beliefs, beliefs together,
that's called a perception
and a perception
has everything to do
with the relationships you
have, the choices you've make,
the things you create and the
behaviors that you demonstrate.
So then in order to change
your beliefs and perceptions
about yourself and your life,
you have to change your state
of being and in order to
change your state of being,
you have to make a decision
with such firm intention
that the amplitude of that
decision carries an emotional
quotient or a level of
energy that's greater
than the hard wired
programs in your brain
and the emotional conditioning
of your body or addiction
of your body and your
body literally responds
to a new mind.
In other words, [laughter]
how can a person in a state
of religious ecstasy
drink strychnine
and have no biological effects?
They make a decision to
change their state of being
and it's energy that does that.
It's electromagnetism.
They're not saying jeez, I
wonder if this is poison.
>> Right.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza: The
moment they're in that state --
they're in a limited
state of being.
They're more matter
and less energy.
>> Right.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza: How
can a person in a state
of absolute faith chew on glass
and have no biological effects?
Their decision in that moment
transcends their biology.
It transcends their circuitry.
It transcends their genetics.
In that moment they're
out of time.
A person who takes a
poisonous snake in a state
of absolute certainty and allows
the poisonous snake to bite them
and they have no
blood coagulation.
How does that happen?
They're in a different
state of being.
Their choice then
transcends the old and in
that moment their body literally
is immune to the conditions
in their environment and they're
literally living outside time.
So then the woman who takes
-- sees her baby caught --
>> Yes.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza: --
under the car and flips --
>> Yes.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza:
-- the car over.
She's not wondering I
wonder how heavy this car is
and I didn't work out
for the last two months.
She's making a decision and her
body's responding to a new mind.
So then if a belief is an
unconscious state of being then
in order for us to
then make a change
and let's just say your
belief about something
because of your past
experience with relationships --
we'll make this up -- you have
experiences in relationships
and those experiences have
an amplitude of energy.
In other words the experience
has a neurological imprint
in the brain and an emotion
that's conditioned in the body.
And that's really your past.
So then from that
experience you view your life
from this experience.
>> Um-hmm.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza:
Well in order for you
to rewrite the program the
amplitude of choice has
to be greater, the
amplitude has to be greater
than that experience
and if it is
and it rewrites the
program neurologically
and conditions the body
emotionally then the past no
longer exists because the
choices and experience
that you never forget
and the end product
of an experience is an
elevated emotion and that's
when the body begins to change.
>> So now what about the
morphogenetic field portion
of the story?
Where does that come in?
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza: Well,
if you think about this,
there are morphogenetic
fields that have to do with --
>> Everything.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza:
-- everything.
>> Yes.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza: Right?
So there's a morphogenetic field
that pharmaceuticals do this
and Prozac does that
and you know,
these injections help you here
and this is the treatment
for chemotherapy.
That's our present --
what we have to offer.
Right?
>> Okay.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza: That's
our greatest expression
of health right now.
>> So is the morphogenetic
field directly intertwined then
with consciousness
and belief systems?
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza: Yes.
So let's talk about that.
So people then have a belief
through their experience
and through their conditioning
that these elements
are going to help them.
And as a matter of fact if
they believe that they will,
there's a greater chance
that they will help them
and if the doctor, if she or
he are sitting in the presence
of them and tells them
what it's going to do
and they have the right body
language and the right presence,
their belief in accepting
that works even greater.
So now, so then morphogenetic
field of what's possible now,
so if this is a huge
morphogenetic field
of pharmaceuticals and
now we're teaching people
that they can actually
change their state of being
without relying on a sugar
pill, without relying
on a saline injection.
That's a philosophical concept
but it doesn't have an imprint
through experience, enough
imprinting through experience
in the quantum field so then if
you're overcoming your anxiety
and the person next to
you is overcoming their MS
and then a person down the
street is overcoming their
chronic pain by changing
their state of being
without any resources outside
of them, without any drugs
without any surgeries,
they're changing it just
by changing their
state of being.
If enough of those people
imprint that experience
into the quantum field --
>> Um-hmm.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza: -- because
the experience literally begins
to upscale the knowledge
and the field.
>> Right.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza:
In other words,
it's an information field.
So now you've access
so the more you do it
and the more we have people
doing it, that community
of experience begins to expand
and it becomes more accessible
because it's more
readily available.
>> So does it -- it's no
longer a vague theory.
There's actually a plasma
with intelligence of sorts
or whatever the field is.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza:
Beyond space and time.
>> Beyond space and
time that you can plug
into as a healing ally.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza: Absolutely.
>> It's there to
support your decisions.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza: Right.
So think about this.
So let's talk about it
because more than 50%
of every person that's on their
way to their first chemotherapy,
50% or more, on the way to their
first chemo therapy treatment
they get nauseous on their drive
over to their first
chemotherapy treatment --
>> Yes.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza: -- because
the doctor told them they're
going to get nauseous.
In other words, they selected a
potential in the quantum field.
They focused on that potential
to the exclusion
of everything else.
They had the thought,
that's clear intention,
and they married with that
clear intention with the emotion
of how they're going to feel.
When you think and feel
a certain way you move
into a state of being
and they knock their body
out of balance just
by thought alone.
So if 50% of every
person on their way
to their first chemotherapy
treatment gets sick
on their drive over,
50% of the people
in this culture can get well
on their drive -- on
their way to work.
It's the same exact thing
it's just the expectation
of either choosing in
something wonderful happening --
>> Yes.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza: --
or choosing in something
terrible to happen.
Now in choosing the terrible,
we always choose the known.
Right?
>> Um-hmm.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza: We're
always choosing the most --
we're choosing that known
because it's based on our past.
I say let's expect the unknown.
Let's expect the unexpected.
Let's choose a potential
in the field that's an
unknown and it exists.
It literally exists
as a possibility.
>> So what happened to the field
when Angelina Jolie made her
decision to do what she did?
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza: [laughter]
>> Because that was a lot
of info put into the field.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza: Listen,
just because you carry a gene
for a certain thing doesn't
necessary mean you're going
to have the condition.
>> It's going to express, yeah.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza: Yeah.
I mean it's just
premature choice.
Now if you have a fear that
it's going to happen well then
that may be the right choice
but gosh darn it, in our studies
of spontaneous remissions
and the people that have gone
through our workshops,
we've seen cancer disappear
in a very short amount of time.
It's becoming --
>> Yes.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza:
-- a morphogenic field.
We've seen people
with MS and Lupus
and Celiac disease,
it goes away.
>> Yes.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza: So
if you're genes turn on
and off they up regulate
and they down regulate,
if 1561 genes can turn on
in eight weeks from people
that have -- that do a simple
relaxation yoga meditation,
20 minutes to 30 minutes 1561
genes, over 800 of them turn
on healthy genes turn on and
about 670 something turn off
that are the stress related
genes and then we know then
that genes then are just on a
moment to moment
basis are changing
but if you're thinking
the same way,
you're choosing the same way,
you're behaving the same way
you're experiencing the same
thing --
>> And you're doing a hard buy
in that genetics indicate
absolute illness in your future.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza:
It's just not true.
>> It's not true.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza:
It's just not the truth.
>> No. So there we go on that.
Now so if we're looking at
ill health then we're looking
at patterns that have been --
these are not random things
that happen to the body.
This has occurred mostly
through your buy in, as you say,
on an emotional, mental,
subconscious level
to where you're now
expressing something
of a lower nature
in the physical?
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza: Okay.
Well let's talk about
that because I want
to answer it in two ways.
>> Okay.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza: Just
because I don't want to sound
like there's a panacea
that I'm addressing.
>> Right.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza: I want
to talk about knowledge
and information so for
the most part, you know,
if you look at the
definition of genes.
Genes allow us to make proteins.
So you have a gene that makes
muscle cells make muscle protein
so [inaudible] skin cells make
skin proteins called collagen
and elastin and stomach cells
make stomach proteins pepsin,
etc., etc. So the body is a
protein producing machine.
But in order for the body to
make proteins for structure
and function the gene
has to be expressed
to make those proteins.
Right? So we express one and
a half percent of our genes.
The other 98 and a half
percent is called junk DNA.
As a matter of fact if you took
a skin cell and you stretched
out the genes of a skin cell
it would be six feet tall.
If you took out all the genetic
material out of your entire body
and you stretched it
out from end to end,
it would go to the sun
and back 150 times.
If you put all the
genetic material
out of the 7 billion
people on the planet
and you scrunched it together
it would fit on a grain of rice.
Now genes are a parts
list of potentials.
They're libraries
of possibilities.
Out of the one and a
half percent of the genes
that you express
your 98% chimpanzee.
You're only a few hundred genes
away from a chimp, 70% rat.
Some more than others
but roughly 70%.
People don't understand
that genes are not the
answer to who they are.
You have 100,000
proteins in your body.
You have 40,000 regulatory
proteins
that make those proteins so then
we should have 140,000 genes
that make 140,000 proteins.
The answer is we don't.
We have 25,000 genes
that make that many.
So now we're talking about
variations, combination,
sequences and patterns and when
you look at this more closely,
one gene can have 35,000
different variations.
>> Really.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza:
So now we're talking
about this whole phenomenon
that's very non-linear.
So there are networks and
components and communities
of connections about how genes
begin to express themselves.
So when you confront or
address adversity or difficulty
in your life, if you're
addressing that adversity
and doing the same thing that
creates the same experience,
the same experience
produces the same emotion
and the same emotion signals
the same gene in the same way.
So if you're angry at your
ex-husband, if you're judgmental
of your coworker, if
you're inpatient in traffic,
every single day then it's
the same information coming
from the environment chemically.
Now as the organisms
and evolution
if there's an organism that's
embracing cold conditions
or heat or altitude or
current or predator and pray.
As the organism is exposed
to those environmental
conditions they have
to change the behaviors
in order to survive.
They have to adapt.
So if they change
their behaviors
and they have a new experience,
a new experience is producing
a new chemical expression.
So now as the organism begins
to embrace the environmental
conditions, over a series
of exposures to the same
environmental conditions
by changing their behaviors,
the new experiences produce
new chemical feedback
from the environment
that signals the gene
and if it's cold the
organism grows thicker fur.
Fur is a protein.
>> Um-hmm.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza: If it's
altitude hemoglobin bonds
to oxygen more.
That's a protein.
>> Um-hmm.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza: If it's
a current a bigger tail fin.
If it's predator and
pray, longer legs.
So the bodies begin to adapt to
the environmental conditions.
So then if you're living
by the same emotions every
single day you're keeping the
same genes turned on and
the other genes turned off
and you're headed to
you genetic destiny.
Now throw in those limited
emotions of anger and survival
and depression and hatred
and judgment and unworthiness
and guilt now you're
dysregulating the gene
and now you're more
matter and less energy.
In other words, the body
is becoming more dense
and if the denser the body
becomes the more we're subject
to the laws of thermal
dynamics, which is matter tends
to break down in time.
Disorder.
>> Yes.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza: Right?
The second law of
thermodynamics.
Change your energy then.
And now if you can really
change the level of energy
that creates a level of
coherence and you begin
to learn new knowledge you
begin to wire it in your brain,
you demonstrate that knowledge
you create a new experience,
a new experience
creates a new emotion
and now you're teaching your
body emotionally what your mind
has intellectually understood.
You're embodying
knowledge in that moment.
You're signaling new
genes in new ways.
>> So you're creating one of
the 35,000 potential effects
for [laughter] that one gene.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza:
Another variation.
>> It's just amazing.
It is miraculous.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza:
Now think about this.
I mean, the latest research
shows that our genes
and our receptors
in our cells are
at least 100 times
more sensitive
to electromagnetism
to electricity --
>> Yes.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza: --
to energy than they are
to chemistry and that
when you get the hair on the
back of your neck standing up
and you feel empowered, and
you feel enriched and you feel,
you know, enthusiastic,
boy oh boy the cells are getting
new information in that moment.
You've come out of your
resting state and you go
from particle to wave.
And when your heart opens, the
field goes from a few inches
around your body to nine
meters around your body.
Now you're saying there's
potentials in the quantum field
that I want to tune into
but in order for you to do
that you have to
emulate the divine.
>> You have laid a lovely
foundation to now get
into the subject of
the placebo effect.
[laughter]
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza:
Are we talking
about the placebo effect?
>> A very thorough,
lovely foundation.
Yes we do need to go there.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza:
All right, so --
>> Okay. And I want to have
some really good juicy examples
of the potentials, startling
examples of what can happen.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza: All right
so I love talking about this
because it suggests possibility.
I mean there's a great story
of a guy that in the mid 1900s,
early 1900s that
went to his doctor
and they did all the exams
on him and they told him
that he had end stage 4th
stage esophageal cancer
and that he had six
months to live
and to get his affairs in order.
So the guy goes home,
announces to his family
that he's got end
stage esophageal
and he's got six months to live.
His family starts treating
him in certain ways,
they're preparing him to die.
Of course in just a few days
over six months he
dies of -- he dies.
And so they do an autopsy
on his body and they find
out he has no esophageal cancer.
So if you think about that --
>> Yeah.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza: --
he died by thought alone.
>> Yes.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza: He
tuned in to that possibility
in the field, emotionally
embraced what it would be like,
lived as if -- that's
a state of being --
and his body was
drawn to that destiny.
Okay? Now you take
another experiment
where you take a
group of patients
that have Parkinson's
disease, okay,
and Parkinson's disease is
a deficiency in dopamine
and the brain can't
make dopamine.
And when there's
not enough dopamine
in the brain there's
involuntary tremors.
In other words there's
a tremor or pill rolling
or what's called steppage gait
or festination gait, the body --
the upper motor neurons
cause the body to go
into spastic paralysis.
Right? So they did
this experiment
where they took people
and they said okay listen,
we got this really great
hot new drug and they pull
out this big needle and
it's a saline injection.
It's salt and they say to them
look okay, now we're going
to give you this injection and
more than 50% of the people
that got the injection,
all of their involuntary
tremors went away.
In other words disappeared.
So now they were no longer
having any imbalances physically
in their body.
So the doctors that did
the experiment said well,
that's just the placebo effect.
And then they said well
what is the placebo?
So what they did was they took
a radioactive dye that competes
with receptor sites in
the brain for dopamine.
So if the person is
making their own dopamine
and they inject the
radioactive die that goes
into those receptor sites,
when they photograph the brain
there should be no radioactive
dye in the brain because
dopamine is in there.
If they're not making
their own dopamine
and they shoot the
radioactive dye in there,
you can see all the brain light
up because it's competing --
it's filling the receptor
sites for dopamine.
So when they did
the test they found
out that those people were
making their own dopamine.
In other words, they moved
into a new state of being.
They got the injection, they
thought that they were well.
As they began to think
that they were well began
to act like they were well.
When they were acting
like they were well,
they began to embrace what
it would feel like to be well
and how you think and
feel is a state of being.
That's a belief.
In a matter of moments
they were being well.
Now the moment you're being
something, the intelligence
that gives you light that's both
within you and all around you,
personal and universal
endorses who you're being.
So the intelligence
says oh, he's being
or she's being healthy
so now I have
to make the internal chemistry
to reflect the state of being.
So they started making
their own dopamine.
Now here's the caveat.
The caveat is that the
results only lasted
for a little time,
like a day or so.
Maybe two days.
And some people say,
well why would that be?
Because the moment the person
returned back into their same --
>> Yes.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza: -- present
life, they saw their wife,
they saw their husband, they saw
the caregiver, they saw the bed,
they played chess with
the guys who complained
about their conditions.
The moment
they got back into their
environment the environment was
so strong that by
association just like --
>> Yes.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza: --
Pavlov ringing the bell
and salivating the body
physiologically returned back
to the old state of being.
But here's the question.
If meditation is about
going from thinking to being
because that's what
it's really about.
You can't get up as the
same person who sat down.
You have to get up
as somebody else.
If that's what meditation
is about then could you move
into a state of being and
instead of putting your belief
into sugar pill or
a saline injection
because all they did was
accept the potential,
could you then put your
attention into the unknown
to the possibility of
quantum field and move
into a state of being everyday?
And if it only lasts for a day
because that environment is
that powerful, wouldn't it
be a good idea then to get
up every morning in a
different state of being
and create an elevated level
of energy to open your heart
and experience goodwill and
gratitude before the event
to be inspired and enthusiastic
and marry it with possibility
and get up from that state
of being and then maintain
that modified state of
mind your entire day
so that the experience
of your meditation turns
into a good mood.
>> Yes.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza:
Turns into a good --
>> Answer's yes --
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza:
-- good temperament.
>> -- that would
be a good thing.
Yes.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza: And then
into a good personality trait.
>> Yeah.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza: So then the
question is, can you teach it?
>> Right. Can you teach it?
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza: Do
you need the sugar pill?
Can you teach it?
>> Okay. So yeah, and
let's talk about that
because what happens -- I mean
we've all heard of the famous,
in the past, the faith healers
the evangelists going around
and there would be these
spontaneous healings,
many of which were
permanent with the people
because they had faith in that
particular charismatic leader,
God, whatever their form of
faith was they had faith in that
above anything else including
above the field of medicine
so the faith was so deep that
the remission was allowed
to happen by faith alone,
but if you go beyond that --
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza: What
is the definition of faith?
>> What is the definition of
faith because we are taught
to believe in everything
other than ourselves.
Must believe in the medical
profession, pharmaceutical.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza: The current
witchdoctor is wearing a lab
coat and stethoscope.
>> Exactly.
Exactly. That's the witchdoctor
which we've been trained
to believe in so we have to
have the faith to overcome
and believe our own
system is stronger, right?
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza: So my
definition of faith is believing
in thought more than
anything else.
And when you --
>> Yes.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza:
We all do this.
You get in trouble
in your life --
>> Yes.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza: -- you get
into a crisis, you've got --
something goes wrong
in your life,
everybody does the same thing,
they retreat from their life.
They don't want to see anybody,
they don't want to go anywhere,
they don't want to
talk to anybody.
They want to eliminate
their environment.
They want to go into --
eliminate their body,
they want to focus on a
possibility in a quantum field.
They want to begin to become
aware of who they no longer want
to be and who they
do want to be.
>> Yes.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza: And that
process when you are injured
or damaged or you're altered
in some way that dark night
of the soul is because you're
no longer feeling like yourself
because you're no
longer yourself and now
that you're no longer
yourself you can see yourself
for the first time.
>> But it takes trauma
oftentimes to bring that state.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza: That's the
old model, current condition.
So then when we get to
that point where we're all
of a sudden now becoming
conscious of who we are again
and we're eliminating
the environment.
We're selecting the
potential in the quantum field
and we're saying this
is what I'm intending on
and we obsess about
that intention.
We keep thinking --
we're wired to do this.
This is what we're wired to do.
>> Um-hmm.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza:
Now you may say, well,
you know, what is that prayer?
I don't care what you call
it, but when you believe
in your internal paradigm,
your internal vision
and you're making it more
real than your external world
and you are emotionally
embracing it, not just hoping,
not just wanting but you have to
emotionally embrace the outcome.
That's the element.
>> Yes.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza:
You have to bring
up the feeling before
it's made to manifest.
>> Exactly.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza:
You can't say
when my new lover comes
I'm going to be happy --
>> That's the missing part.
Words don't do it.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza: Right.
Because you can't say
you know, when my --
you know when I'm healed
I'll finally give thanks
or when my wealth shows up
then I'll be inspired --
that's the Newtonian model of
reality of cause and effect
and the quantum model
of reality says you have
to teach your body
emotionally what it feels
like ahead of the actual event.
>> Yes.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza: You have to
literally change the circuitry
in your brain to look like
the experience has happened
and you have to emotionally
condition your body
into giving it a
taste of the future
so that your body's
physically changed.
Now if your brain and body
are physically changed to look
like the experience
has happened,
relax because the experience has
already happened and it's going
to find you and it's
going to come in a way
that you least expect.
Now why does it have to come
in a way that you least expect?
Because if you can expect
it, it's nothing new.
It's got to rock your world.
>> Absolutely.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza: It's
got to catch you off guard.
It has to leave no doubt
that what you did inside
of you produced some
result outside of you
and when you can correlate
the changes you've made inside
of you with the effects
that you produced outside
of you you'll pay
attention to what you did
and you'll do it again and
that's called causing an effect.
And that level of empowerment is
what every human being is after.
It's not the car.
It's not the SUV, it's not the
lover, it's not the vacation,
it's the fact that you
created it from your mind
and when you get a
taste of that and all
of a sudden the material
things become incidental
because now you're going to
want to experience the mystical.
You're going to want to
understand and unravel --
>> Yes.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza: -- the
mystery of who you really are.
That's the excitement then
because you're no longer seduced
by the shampoos and
the cars and the beers
and whatever else people
think they need to have.
>> And every human
being is capable,
innately capable of doing this.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza: I always
say nobody's so special --
>> Yes.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza: -- to be
excluded from the quantum law.
Now think about antiquity.
Gender, race, color,
social status --
>> Yep.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza: --
intellectual ability,
religion has all
disseminated and divided people
in their ignorance they
think they have to go
through someone to get there.
>> Right.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza:
We come preloaded
with all the biological
and neurological
machinery to do this.
We are divine creators.
That's who we are.
And if you're waking up
everyday and getting out of bed
and doing the same thing
and going to the same place
and seeing the same people
at the exact same time
and then allowing
the same people
to push the same emotional
buttons then it's your
external environment.
Your environment's controlling
how you think and feel.
You're victim to
your environment.
The point the model says change
how you think and feel and see
if you can put into
effect in your environment.
Now when you get to this point,
I don't care if you're the CEO
of a major company or
prison inmate or the janitor
in the school or
the schoolteacher,
everybody secretly
believes in their greatness.
They do. They secretly believe
that they can do a better job
in life and when we get to
that point of consciousness,
becoming conscious, right?
I don't care what paradigm you
accept, but the bottom line is,
is that there is some aspect
of us at cause in our life.
That's the new model of reality
and so when you truly are
in a state of creation,
guess what?
You're not your face,
you're not your body,
you're not your identity,
you're not your breasts,
you're not a mother, you're not
a wife, you're not your car,
you're not your house,
you're not living
in this lifetime in linear time.
In order to get to the
field of possibility,
you have to become
pure consciousness,
nobody, no one,
no thing, no where and no time.
And when we dissociate from this
present reality, we just walk
through to the door
to the quantum field.
You can't enter as a somebody.
You have to enter as a nobody.
And that means then by
our very nature you have
to become pure consciousness
and when you are then you have
dominion to change your body.
Now you have the ability to
create something in your life
in your environment and you
transcend or create another time
so it's kind of a paradox.
Isn't it funny --
>> It is.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza:
-- that in order for us
to create a new life, we have
to forget about our life.
>> [laughter] Yeah.
Exactly.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza: We have to
forget about all of who we are.
>> So let's talk about
the nuts and bolts of it.
So you're looking at being
able to access the no thing
and no one aspect of self.
The non-linear, beyond
space and time template
that has the ability to create
any outcome we want, really.
And so let's talk about that
within the context of healing
and beyond the placebo effect
because no placebo effect
should become a worn out term.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza: Um-hmm.
>> Really, we do need
to move beyond it.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza: Sure.
>> It's just the effect
not the placebo effect.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza: Well
how much time do we have?
>> We have about ten minutes.
[laughter]
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza: Well this
is interesting because when we -
look, after "What the Bleep",
you know the most common thing
we heard was how do you do it?
You know? So we started teaching
these workshops around the world
and we were teaching
people how to do it
and for two years we really
didn't produce much results.
We didn't have a lot of
results and after two years all
of a sudden the flood
gates opened.
We started getting emails.
And of course the very first
line of every email that we got
and it's still the same to
this day is you're not going
to believe this.
That's the first
line of every email.
Hey I gave up my anger and
my acid reflux went away.
Hey, I got this job.
I'm making $40,000 more
than I was last year,
I'm traveling along the west
coast, I got all expenses --
you know all of these
-- I won the lottery.
You know, all of a sudden we
started getting this flood gate
of all these possibilities where
people were manifesting reality.
So we knew then that we
were getting feedback
that we were doing
something right.
So we started teaching
more advanced workshops
and then this crazy
thing happened.
We started having people
getting healed right during our
workshops, MS, Lupus,
Celiac disease,
high blood pressure
chronic pain --
>> How could you
quantify that at the time?
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza: Well
they would stand up and say,
oh my God you know
something shifted in me --
>> Yeah.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza:
I'm eating hamburgers.
I was living on lettuce for the
last seven years of my life.
Hey, I've had chronic bladder
pain for the last 15 years.
I'm so I can't even take
antibiotics any longer
because I'm immune to them now.
I have no bladder pain.
I feel great.
You know, or you know --
>> Wow.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza: -- hey,
there's some shift, you know,
and then they send
us the lab results
and of course we correlate it.
>> Um-hmm.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza: It
was happening in realtime.
They were signaling new genes
in new ways in the event.
Their body was literal
living in a [inaudible]
>> So people are saying
to themselves what were
they teaching them?
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza: Well it
was amazing because we now knew
that the placebo was working
but the only thing was
that there was no sugar pill or
bread pill or saline injection.
>> Right.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza: -- they
were believing in themselves.
Okay? So what we said then
was look, if it's happening
in realtime we've
got to measure this.
Like we talked about last
time we brought in a team
of neuroscientists,
Jeffrey [phonetic] Fanin,
we brought [inaudible]
Constantine, [phonetic] Karodcov
and I wanted measurements
and I wanted to know.
If we could see what
was going on --
look it's one thing to
say a person's better
from Parkinson's
disease but let's see
if in fact their brain
is acting differently.
>> And last time we had
talked you had conducted the
experiments but you were
waiting for the data to come in.
I think it was just due.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza: All right.
Well let's cut through
some slides.
Let's cut through some slides.
>> Yeah. Let's do it.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza: Okay.
So what we did first
and foremost is we measured
the ambient energy in the room.
We had a little over
200 participants
in this advanced workshop.
It was a four day
workshop and we said okay,
let's measure the
electromagnetic field,
space of the room,
and let's measure the
energy in the room.
>> And that's Constantine job.
Yeah.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza: So we
measured the energy in the room
and it was roughly 2800-joules
or so or 3800-joules.
At the end of the 4 day workshop
it was over 5200-joules.
Now that is very --
>> It started out as what?
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza:
38 and went up to 52.
>> Wow.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza: So we had
a very, very substantial amount
of energy, available
energy that's in that room.
It was palpable by the
fourth day but we measured
and now we know there's more
energy less matter in the room.
>> Um-hmm.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza:
We know that.
So we talked to Constantine
about this and he said I have
to present these results at my
conference because this is one
of the most dramatic
changes that we've ever seen
when it comes to measuring
energy in the rooms.
So we took people
through the process
of examining their
past the first day
and when we studied them
examining their past their brain
actually got worse because
most people when we look at --
>> Sure. Because they're
swimming in that soup.
Sure.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza: And the
energy in the room went down.
>> Went down.
Yeah.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza: Because
they were recalling energy back
to [inaudible]
>> Yeah.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza: So when
I looked at the brain scans
of people in the middle
of their meditation,
they were using their brain
to try to change their brain.
They were using the program
to try to change the program.
They were using the ego
to try to change the ego
and the brain worked harder and
the brain wave patterns went up,
and they got worse but then
when we started shifting
to the present moment and all
of a sudden they were
calling energy back,
the energy room started to rise.
By the third day we had --
I watched during meditations
I watched the trip chart just
raise and this is
the result of it so.
People were exuding energy.
Their body's energy went
from very small to very large
and it was cluttering the room
and was creating a
new morphogenic field.
>> Yes.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza:
So there was a field
that was created there.
So we now know that
that happened.
Now this is what a change
in coherence looks
like in the brain.
If you look on the left
side, this person has a lot
of chatter going
on in their brain.
Their brain is working
way too hard.
They're thinking
about everything.
They're analyzing their
life within the emotions
that they're memorized.
Their brain is in a
high arousal state.
After one meditation, we
see a normal healthy brain.
As a matter of fact --
>> One looks agitated.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza:
One is very agitated.
>> Um-hmm.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza: So you
got two parts of the brain,
two halves of the
brain communicating.
That is a level of wholeness
where the person is
literally viewing their life
from a different mind.
>> Um-hmm.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza: Now
Constantine's work allows us
to measure the field
around the body
but then the different
energy centers.
I don't like to call
them chakras --
>> Right.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza: -- but
I call them energy centers
because they're literally
hormone centers
that carry nerve plexuses
or minds with them.
They're levels of consciousness.
So you can measure the person's
level of chakra balance based
on their size of expression,
healthiness, robustness
and then the way we measure
whether they're working properly
is whether they're aligned
or we move them off.
So the weaker or more
imbalance they are,
the more removed they are
-- the more they move off.
So we do a meditation at
the beginning of everyday
to bless every one of these
centers with new information.
At the end of one
meditation, you have to get
into your autonomic
nervous system --
>> Look at that.
Yeah.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza: -- to look
beyond your analytical mind.
You have to enter into
the subconscious system
to make the change.
Here's a person who's
energy is way off.
After one meditation their
energy is more aligned
and you can see some
of those energy centers
actually enlarged.
>> Right.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza: Take
a look at this person.
They're doing pretty good.
But after the meditation
they're doing really well.
>> Yeah. This is
amazing technology.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza: This is
45 minutes of one meditation.
Now look at the size of those
energy centers compared pre
and post.
You can see.
>> Look at that.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza:
They're just more robust,
they're more filled,
they're more heightened
and this person's going
to have a good day.
[laughter]
>> Yeah.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza: So now is
a great way for us to measure.
Like in other words you
can't change the systems
with your conscious mind.
As consciousness falls
out of the neocortex,
so you move deeper into the
autonomic nervous system,
you know that fight or flight,
parasympathetic nervous system,
that autonomic, automatic
nervous system that causes you
to salivate when you
see the chocolate cake.
Well if you're changing the
program now, you're changing it
in the Autonomic nervous system,
you won't salivate any longer
because you changed it there.
This is bliss in the brain.
You can see right around the
third level, the third row
down there, second one
over from the left,
you see a brain that's
bright red.
And that is energy making
its way to the brain.
This is being in the moment.
You can see a person very hypo
coherent in the first slide
and then in the second slide
their brain is way more
organized and more balanced.
Now, this woman had an
amazing, amazing experience.
We were watching her brain
patterns during this event
and she was pretty much started
her event in a certain level,
her meditation went -- we were
watching it during the event,
during the meditation and
I want you to see what full
out ecstasy looks
like in the brain.
See how red that is?
>> Yeah.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza:
That is energy.
>> Wow.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza:
That's Kundalini.
This woman was sobbing
she was in so much joy
and she wasn't doing it.
It was happening to her.
It was energy, all
of that energy is
as the body is the mind is
moving back to the brain.
This person was in the
state of absolute bliss.
State of absolute ecstasy.
This is a person with a
traumatic brain injury.
All that blue means
is it's hypo coherent.
He's struggling.
The light bulbs as ten
watts instead of 15-watts.
>> Yeah.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza:
After four days
of meditation, normal brain.
Normal brain.
He's wheelchair bound at the
end of this event, he stood up.
Traumatic brain injury same
guy, look at how blue it is
in all those different segments.
In other words he's not --
his brain is not
getting enough energy.
This is a normal
brain after four days.
>> So what I'm seeing here
then if we were talking
about earlier what is faith?
And accessing that
faith in self.
We've been taught to not
have faith in ourselves
and in our own potentials,
but what you're showing us is
actually I think a good hook
for developing faith
in what we're capable
of because the science is
now supporting the faith.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza: Sure.
Absolutely.
>> It's beautiful.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza:
And look at this.
Look at this person with
Parkinson's disease.
This is a person when you
have Parkinson's disease,
the brain is working
way too hard.
>> Yes.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza:
It's hyper coherent.
A person has very, very --
are lot of difficulty
thinking clearly.
The brain is way out of balance.
After four days of meditation,
this is a normal brain.
Her tremors went away.
>> Now interestingly, you showed
us the woman who's brain was
blissed out, bright red.
You show us the really
stressed out brain, bright red.
What's the difference in --
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza: Okay.
Different -- without going
into too much detail.
>> Because it's a lot of energy.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza: No, no.
In this particular mechanism,
this particular graph,
the red in this situation
is measuring what's
called coherence.
>> Okay.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza:
So the redder it is
in this slide means the
more hyper coherent.
The more static is going on.
>> Active.
Right.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza: So
the other brain scan,
the other quantitative
measurement
that we use is standard
deviations of temperature.
So here's the other measurement.
So look how blue
the brain is here.
Which means there's not
a lot of activity going.
>> Yes.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza: That is
a normal brain right there.
>> Oh my God.
Okay. Well --
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza: No tremors.
This person without any
drugs without any surgery
without anything in her belief
in herself changed
her state of being.
>> We only have about
two minutes left.
So for you and I think
it might be redundant
to even ask this question, but
what is the most hopeful element
of spiritual technology
right now when we look
at the incredible trouble
people are in in mass
on a chronic disease level?
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza: Yeah.
Someone's got to start
telling the truth,
that the number one
reason for people living
in physical imbalance is because
of the hormones of stress,
75 to 90% of every
person that walks
into a health care facility
is walking in because
of the stress related
disorder and the longer we live
by stress the more
disease we'll become.
And I don't care what
drug, what surgery you do,
until you take care of the cause
of that problem, then you know,
when Jesus healed his people
he said, "Sin no more."
What he meant was
change your attitude,
I've got a busy day today.
I've got a crucifixion
coming up,
I've got a mother who's
worried about me, I have 12 guys
who have no idea what
I'm talking about.
If you don't change your
attitude I'm going to have
to come back and do this again.
So I think people have to
realize that we're a cause
of all of this and start
taking our power back instead
of believing that everybody
has the answers, start finding
out for yourself
the truth behind it
and start making your
own personal changes.
>> So it really has to
be a committed practice.
Take however much time
we can each day to go
and create this new reality.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza: Just even
if you just spent a little bit
of time doing that you
would see the effects.
Be the scientist In your life --
>> Yeah.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza: --
and never wait for science
to give you permission
to do the uncommon.
>> Exactly.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza: Do the
uncommon and do it consistently
and then have science come
and measure you and say wow,
we need to change our laws.
>> Yes. As always, not just a
pleasure but very elucidating
for all of us and we're going
to have another conversation.
So we're going to continue our
conversation by going deeper
into the esoteric and speaking
about our non-linear selves
which we have talked about just
a bit and the pineal gland.
You want want to miss
this conversation.
[laughter] Until
next time thank you
for joining us here on Gaiam TV.
[ Music ]